WORKING GROUP: Userspace Security
DATE: 2025-10-22
ATTENDEES:
- Amadeo (Native Planet)
- Jackson (Groundwire)
- Christian (Groundwire)
- Robin (Groundwire)
- Yun (Groundwire)
- Thomas (Groundwire)

## 1. Action Item Review

- Schedule next meeting(s) - Robin
    - The schedule has been set in the public Groundwire Google Calendar.

## 2. Technical Discussion

- Amadeo and Pyry recently started working on a new userspace task interface.
    - The aim is to provide an API with a higher level of abstraction into the kernel for userspace agents, so that kernel tasks don't need to be used directly.
    - However this does not replace the ability to send direct kernel tasks from userspace.
    - The previously designed and implemented permissions system is still relevant insofar as the existing tasks available to agents are not deprecated.
    - This new task interface will provide an additional layer of security to protect the kernel. This is good from the perspective of the permissions system because it means agents shouldn't typically need to request permissions for direct kernel tasks, which is what poses the highest threat to one's Urbit ship.

- Reviewing the new Eyre security approach:
    - Instead of using iframes to handle the authentication flow into desk subdomains (which was abandoned due to cross origin limitations in iframes and cookies), Eyre will achieve this using a triple redirect.
    - This could also be the basis of a general Urbit SSO provider for any site.
    - The triple redirect approach seems sufficient for making the desk origins client security model work, and so exploring other options such as native UI doesn't appear to be so critical anymore.

- Recap on the permissions system
    - We looked at the outline of the permissions system (as described here https://gist.github.com/R-JG/e624f4a9195145e52c915ff2d636e0d0)
    - Everyone agrees that representing the previously implemented permissions system code in a formal spec should be the first goal in this working group.

## 3. Decisions Made

- We will begin formalizing the existing permissions model into a specification.

## 4. New Action Items

- Start writing a spec covering the existing permissions model - Robin - 2025-11-06

## 5. Next Meeting

Date: 2025-11-06
Proposed Agenda Items:
- Review the permissions spec.
- Evaluate the threat model in relation to the permissions spec.

